## Goals first 

Goal clarification is the most important part of a planning effort.  A common
pitfall for software development projects is getting hung-up on tooling,
process and document-writing. While all of these might be important for
_supporting_ a software project, it is important to always keep in mind the
_goal_ of a software project: Delivering functionality and value to users. 
   
Different goals and objectives might yield themselves to different
methodologies: Some goals might for example be much easier to achieve with
continuous developer-user interaction, while other goals might be better served
by a more traditional "waterfall" approach.

## Documents

In general, it is always a good idea to "codify" parts of the planning process
in the form of documents. These documents represent the canonical account of
the planning process, and stabilize the project over time.

An important question to resolve is how rigidly these planning documents should
be adhered to. It might seem like a waste to choose to ignore parts of the
official plan after spending time and effort figuring it out, but experience
also shows that projects that manage to respond to change over time are much
more successful.  This is especially important in the context of usage and
users, who should be allowed to shape and guide the project with their
feedback.

On the other hand, developers need to be able to make technology choices with
long-term repercussions on what the software will be able to do. This means
that stability is almost always beneficial. A rule of thumb is to think of
stability as a "cost", which is beneficial, but also means you won't be able to
respond to shorter-term requirements that come up during development and after
deployment.


